This is the repo for my DSE 511 final project. It uses an example 'employees' database formatted for MySQL which was included in this repo (folder -> test_db-master). I initialized the database with the employees.sql file using the command line in Windows 11. There were 8 tables included in the database from which I wanted to get the employees first and last names, genders, salaries, departments, and job titles. This required joins and some subqueries that I didn't expect because there were multiple entries for certain employees. For example, one guy had been employed for a while and have 6+ different salaries over time. Therefore, the query had to filter out the older job titles or salaries to just get one unique row for each first name and last name combination.

I started by just getting a visual assessment of the salaries for each of the 9 departments. I had to add some jitter and alpha to the plot because there are quite a lot of employees. Since this dataset is fabricated, I wasn't sure what to visually expect, but there were a handful of differences in departments. Primarily the sizes of the departments were different and then the Sales department gnerally made more than the other departments. In my time with Dr. Bozdogan in the stats department taking STAT 563, 564, 577, and 579 I have a much better handle on distributions than I used to. That made me want to qualitatively fit some different distributions to the salary densities to see if it changed per department. Some of the departments had relatively 'normal' distributions such as Marketing and Finance, while others had more Weibull distributed data such as HR and Quality Management because of their tails. I also did this distribution "fitting" for the groups based on job title. These results tended to be more skewed from normal than when I grouped them by department. 

Finally, I wanted to include some light classification work with logistic regression based on salary and job title. I did try some SVM, but the code execution was taking QUITE a long time. I made a small little function to take 2 job titles from the dataframe and map their corresponding rows to 0 or 1. Then, using a LogisticRegression class from Scikit-Learn, we can get the accuracy and confusion matrix out of it. As expected, doing this binary classification for jobs with similar salaries (Senior Engineer vs. Senior Staff) results in much poorer accuracy than jobs where the salary is more spread out. For example, Assistant Engineer vs. Senior Staff resulted in a 94.02% accuracy which is due to the considerable different in salary range and density between the two jobs.
